# Cryptography!

Learning a lot of cryptography to implement my TOTP API with proper industry security practices.

## The actual TOTP

So, my understand is the following: we use HMAC-SHA1 to hash the user's TOTP secret along with the current Unix time floored by 30 seconds, then, we read the last byte and the number it contains is the index of the first bit we read from the hash, we read 4 bytes from there, set the last bit to 0 to avoid sign issues, then take that number and do mod 10^6 to get a 6 digit number. Boom.

It's a fun standard, simpler than I thought. The problems I had with implementing it is E2EE vs. encryption at rest. For an API, E2EE isn't feasible, I would have to have a client that decrypts the secret and performs the above logic, my API would just supply the encrypted secret. Definitely not a job for an API, but a future project, absolutely.

## The AES stuff I had to learn

Realistically, it's not like I had to implement AES myself (actually discouraged!), but there's a few weird things. I did implement AES-GCM as the industry standard for storing client standards with proper nonce use for making sure it's not deterministic.

## Challenges

I didn't really know SQL. I tried to digest as much SQLite as I could for this project. I need to learn how to work with databases more and I definitely will. They're actually fairly fun to work with, Python interacts with everything super nicely. SQLite is what I opted for the project as it's simpler, but I'd like to learn PostgreSQL since it seems it's more used in the industry.

## And on they go into my API!

Everything above has been implemented into my API, the following days I will work on tests and proper client registration. Currently, essentially just the skeleton is done. I need a LOT of tests for proper production CI/CD.
