# 2026-04-09

Initial commit

## Here's everything that I've done up to this point (that will be documented here)

About a year ago, I got into Linux. After exploring various distros, I ended up committing fully and embraced the entire "ecosystem". By "ecosystem", I mean the freedom to make my own, which is exactly what will be documented here.

## MY ecosystem

After "distrohopping" for a good amount of months, I ended up on NixOS, a declarative Linux distro that essentially guarantees reproducibility, stability and a whole lot of fun. Instead of being managed through a bunch of commands, I declare the state of my system through a coding language "Nix", which is also the name of the package manager.

Now my computer, laptop and more importantly home server are entirely defined by code, in a repo that can be found at https://codeberg.org/ankhseraph/ankhnix . 

So what did I do?

My homeserver now runs NixOS which in turn runs Docker, each container is hooked into a Cloudflared Tunnel and protected by Cloudflare Access, all run through a Wireguard VPN which provides anonimity for tasks such as my self-hosted search engine.

## What have I replaced with my home server?

- Spotify: Navidrome is a free and open-source app that exposes a web interface which can be read by individual desktop apps on any platform and streams your entire music library. I wrote my own overly-complicated shell script to sort my CD collection and tag them correctly using FFmpeg and MusicBrainz Picard.

- Google Search: SearXNG is a "meta" search engine as it aggregates multiple search engines' results into one. I run it through Cloudflare Access for security against third party people wanting to use my cool engine. I found the results to be generally better than Google (as, really, the engine uses Google, Bing, DuckDuckGo and Brave all at once!)

- Apple Passwords: Vaultwarden is a free and open-source password manager, the self-hosted version of Bitwarden. It actually runs through the real Bitwarden app through their self-hosted server option. Identical in usage to essentially the world's most trusted password manager so, safe to say, easy replacement.

- Google Drive: This one is quite the endeavor. I built a PC using older computer parts from my family, bought some second hand 12TB hard drives and, with TrueNAS, made a NAS. I now have 36TB of storage for free, essentially, available anywhere. Google Drive is no more.


